Configure with Quaker Docs
================================

QuakerDocs supports configuring your own documentation build with a
configuration file. This file is named ``conf.py`` and is found in the /docs
directory.

Extensions
----------------
Add any Sphinx extension module names here, as strings. They can be
extensions coming with Sphinx ``named 'sphinx.ext.*`` or your custom ones.

.. code-block:: python

   extensions = []


Templates
----------------
Add any paths that contain templates here, relative to this directory.

.. code-block:: python

   templates_path = ['_templates']


Source suffix
----------------
The suffix(es) of source filenames.
You can specify multiple suffix as a list of string:

.. code-block:: python

   source_suffix = ['.rst', '.md']


Master document
----------------
The master toctree document.
You can specify the master document of your documentation webpage:

.. code-block:: python

   master_doc = 'index'


Information about your project
-------------------------------
General information about the project.

.. code-block:: python

   project = 'Quaker Docs'
   copyright = str(date.today().year) + ', Quaker Docs'
   author = 'PSE Team D'


Version
--------
The version info for the project you're documenting, acts as replacement for
`|version|` and `|release|`, also used in various other places throughout the
built documents.

The short X.Y version.

.. code-block:: python

   version = 'v0.3'
   # The full version, including alpha/beta/rc tags.
   release = version


Language
----------
The language for content autogenerated by Sphinx. Refer to documentation
for a list of supported languages.

This is also used if you do content translation via gettext catalogs.
Usually you set "language" from the command line for these cases.

.. code-block:: python

   language = 'en'


Exclude patterns
-----------------
List of patterns, relative to source directory, that match files and
directories to ignore when looking for source files.
This patterns also effect to html_static_path and html_extra_path

.. code-block:: python

   exclude_patterns = []


Options for HTML
------------------------

HTML theme path
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First defy the path to your directory containing your html files.

.. code-block:: python

   templates_path = '../static'  # TODO: Should be a list of directories!

HTML theme
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The theme to use for HTML and HTML Help pages.  See the documentation for
a list of builtin themes.

.. code-block:: python

   html_theme = 'quakerdocs'

HTML theme options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Theme options are theme-specific and customize the look and feel of a theme
further.  For a list of options available for each theme, see the
documentation.

.. code-block:: python

   html_theme_options = {}

HTML static path
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Add any paths that contain custom static files (such as style sheets) here,
relative to this directory. They are copied after the builtin static files,
so a file named "default.css" will overwrite the builtin "default.css".

.. code-block:: python

   html_static_path = ['_static']

HTML favicon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: python

   html_favicon = '_static/_images/favicon.ico'

HTML logo
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: python

   html_logo = '_static/_images/logo.png'
